If you could explain or describe discernment or wisdom, what is the discernment?
Knowing the nature of things, knowing things in their nature, that's what wisdom is.
So that doesn't mean knowing about things, or having all the information about the things,
it's a different thing.
Collecting information, or retaining information, that's on the level of intelligence, and
that can help if you know where to look for the nature of a present experience, nature
of feelings, nature of perception, nature of suffering, nature of things that matters.
That's not necessarily determined by intelligence, but by wisdom and by effort put in their wisdom.
You know, no one is born with wisdom.
People are born with different intelligence.
But wisdom is developed through effort, through strength, calming of your mind, giving
into craving and desires, all of these are called in the soot as the weakness of wisdom,
because they all go against it.
So that's basically what discernment is knowing the nature of things, knowing the nature of things.
What is nature?
Well, the nature of things, different things, obviously, are different in the nature,
but most universally they do all meeting or other share the same nature, which is what
everybody was talking about, the nature of all the terminations is impermanence, the nature
of all the terminations is suffering, and in the nature of all things, it's they cannot
be owned, they cannot be owned, they don't belong to you.
Therefore you can use them, but you're making a grave error in maintaining your assumption
of ownership in regard to them.
That's the root of all the problems as well.
It's not the usage of things, it's the ownership that you maintain on the mental level.
So that's the nature you want to be concerned about.
As in, you know, you can investigate other natures or something, but that's all relative.
You want to come to the root of the nature of all things, which is impermanence, and
cannot be owned, because that's really all the matters.
Why is that wisdom there?
Because that's what wisdom is.
You're starting that from the wrong end, that question.
You would say, how would you call knowing the nature, and I would answer, how would call
it, a wisdom?
So you can call it whichever you want, but you start, why is that a wisdom, in plan,
you already have the idea of what wisdom is, so why is that that wisdom?
But it's other way around.
You don't have to call it wisdom, call it any other word, but it will be called like that.
Why?
Because it takes you, it takes you, it takes you beyond things.
Makes you make, yeah, literally it takes you beyond things.
You're not affected by them.
You cannot be accessed by them.
Why?
Because you remove your ownership.
If you think they're not yours, you won't be emotionally affected by what happens to
them.
And that is wisdom, that's elevation of the mind, which means a greater perspective
on things, greater perspective, because all the decisions people make in life, intelligent
people, and non-intelligent people, are based on the degree, the height, so to speak, of
their perspective, and the height of the perspective is what wisdom is.
People with greater perspective, maybe not the ultimate perspective, but they are wiser
people.
They might not necessarily be ultimately wise and know the way out, but they're certainly
wiser in relation to those who just have no perspective, who are just like animals following
senses and sense desires.
So I guess that's another way you can describe wisdom, it's the height of your perspective,
universally speaking.
So you can never be surprised.
Absolutely, exactly, yeah, exactly, just lose something, yeah, and you cannot, the greater
the wisdom is the less of an emotional involvement with things you have, which means the ultimate
wisdom is complete surmounting of the feelings and suffering, because when you are a robot,
it just means you're a very wise person.